**Okay, migrations is not a complex topic, but it is important to keep it in mind, because it gives us control and order over the changes we make to our models.**

Think about this: when you build web pages in production, it is very likely that some data will change over time. Do you want to add a new column to a model? Change the data type that a certain column receives or change column names? It doesn’t matter what the change is — changes in databases are very common. That’s exactly why we have migrations.

Imagine this: you decide to make a change in your database for greater efficiency or whatever comes to mind, and suddenly your program breaks. You don’t know what to do or how to go back to the previous version — and that’s where migrations shine.

It’s simple. You only need two commands in the terminal:

- python manage.py makemigrations Django looks at your models.py, compares it to the last version it remembers, and creates a new “migration file” (a Python script in your migrations/ folder). This is like “staging” your changes in Git.
- python manage.py migrate Django reads those migration files and executes the actual SQL commands to update your database tables. This is like “committing” or “pushing” those changes to the database.

What happens is that Django sees the changes you made in your models and creates a new file with the updated database instructions. That way, if any problem or unexpected issue appears, you can go back to the previous version. It’s like version control for your database.

### Why do we need them?

- **Safety**: You can “roll back” to a previous version of your database if something breaks.
- **Collaboration**: When a teammate pulls your code, they just run migrate to get their local database exactly like yours.
- **Automation**: You don’t have to write complex ALTER TABLE SQL statements by hand.



Let's make a quick example

```python
from django.db import models

class Book(models.Model):
	"""A simple book in your library app"""
	title = models.CharField(max_length = 100)
	author = models.CharField(max_length = 100)
	published_year = models.DateField()
```


**Step 1: First time you create the table** You run:

Bash

```
python manage.py makemigrations
```

Django creates a file like:

```python
# myapp/migrations/0001_initial.py
from django.db import migrations, models

class Migration(migrations.Migration):
    initial = True
    dependencies = []
    operations = [
        migrations.CreateModel(
            name='Book',
            fields=[
                ('id', models.AutoField(...)),           # Django adds this automatically
                ('title', models.CharField(max_length=200)),
                ('author', models.CharField(max_length=100)),
                ('published_year', models.IntegerField()),
            ],
        ),
    ]
```

**Step 2: Apply it**

Bash

```
python manage.py migrate
```